README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/metrics-collector-client-swift.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/metrics-collector-client-swift)
[![Platform][platform-badge]][platform-url]

# Overview
Metrics Collector Service collects statistics for deployment of a github sample code on Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Data Science Experience, OpenWhisk etc.

The MetricsTrackerClient for Swift is a package used to track number of deployments for a particular Swift project. This Swift package requires little setup and allows IBMers to view deployment stats on the [Deployment Tracker](https://metrics-tracker.mybluemix.net/stats), for their demo/tutorial projects. If you'd like, you can include a deployment count badge in your project's README:

![Deployment badge example](badge.png "Deployment Badge")

## Swift version
- The Swift version must be 3.0 or above.

You can download different versions of the Swift binaries by following this [link](https://swift.org/download/).

## To Use
1. To leverage the MetricsTrackerClient package in your Swift application, you should specify a dependency for it in your `Package.swift` file:

	```swift
	 import PackageDescription

	 let package = Package(
	     name: "MyAwesomeSwiftProject",

	     ...

	     dependencies: [
	     
	     	// Swift 3.1.1
	         .Package(url: "https://github.com/IBM/metrics-tracker-client-swift.git", majorVersion: 5),
		 
		 // Swift 4.0
		.package(url: "https://github.com/IBM/metrics-tracker-client-swift.git", .upToNextMajor(from: "5.0.0")),
	         ...

	     ])
	```
2. Once the Package.swift file of your application has been updated accordingly, you can import the `MetricsTrackerClient` module in your code. Additionally, you will need to initialize the MetricsTrackerClient and call the `track()` method, as seen here:

	```
	import MetricsTrackerClient

	...

	MetricsTrackerClient(repository: "BluePic", organization: "IBM").track()

	```
**Note:** You must replace `BluePic` with your own Github repository name. If your repository is not in `IBM`, please also replaces `IBM` with your repository's organization.

The above code should be used within the main entry point of your Swift application, generally before you start your server.

3. Add a [repository.yaml](#example-repositoryyaml-file) file in your GitHub master's top level repository.

4. Lastly, you should add a copy of the [Privacy Notice](#privacy-notice) to the README of your project. All applications that use the deployment tracker must have a Privacy Notice.

## Example repository.yaml file

The repository.yaml need to be written in Yaml format. Also, please put all your keys in lower case.

```yaml
id: watson-discovery-news
runtimes: 
  - Cloud Foundry
services: 
  - Discovery
event_id: web
event_organizer: dev-journeys
```

Required field:

1. id: Put your journey name/Github URL of your journey.
2. runtimes: Put down all your platform runtime environments in a list.
3. services: Put down all the bluemix services that are used in your journey in a list.
4. event_id: Put down where you will distribute your journey. Default is web.
5. event_organizer: Put down your event organizer if you have one.


## Example App
To see how to include this package into your app, please visit [Kitura-Starter](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter). View the [Package.swift](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter/blob/master/Package.swift#L29) and [main.swift](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter/blob/master/Sources/Kitura-Starter/main.swift#L30) as a reference.

## Privacy Notice
```
## Privacy Notice
This Swift application includes code to track deployments to [IBM Bluemix](https://www.bluemix.net/) and other Cloud Foundry platforms. The following information is sent to a [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/cf-deployment-tracker-service) service on each deployment:

* Swift project code version (if provided)
* Swift project repository URL
* Application Name (`application_name`)
* Space ID (`space_id`)
* Application Version (`application_version`)
* Application URIs (`application_uris`)
* Labels of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service and associated plan information
* Metadata in the repository.yaml file

This data is collected from the parameters of the `MetricsTrackerClient`, the `VCAP_APPLICATION` and `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variables in IBM Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Bluemix to measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking
Please see the README for the sample application that includes this package for instructions on disabling deployment tracking, as the instructions may vary based on the sample application in which this package is included.
```

## License
This Swift package is licensed under Apache 2.0. Full license text is available in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

[platform-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-OS%20X%20--%20Linux-lightgray.svg
[platform-url]: https://swift.org

Commit message:

Update swift client (#4)
- Update swift client to put service names into an array.
- Able to parse language section in repository.yaml
- Update repository.yaml example

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/metrics-collector-client-swift.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/metrics-collector-client-swift)
[![Platform][platform-badge]][platform-url]

# Overview
Metrics Collector Service collects statistics for deployment of a github sample code on Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Data Science Experience, OpenWhisk etc.

The MetricsTrackerClient for Swift is a package used to track number of deployments for a particular Swift project. This Swift package requires little setup and allows IBMers to view deployment stats on the [Deployment Tracker](https://metrics-tracker.mybluemix.net/stats), for their demo/tutorial projects. If you'd like, you can include a deployment count badge in your project's README:

![Deployment badge example](badge.png "Deployment Badge")

## Swift version
- The Swift version must be 3.0 or above.

You can download different versions of the Swift binaries by following this [link](https://swift.org/download/).

## To Use
1. To leverage the MetricsTrackerClient package in your Swift application, you should specify a dependency for it in your `Package.swift` file:

	```swift
	 import PackageDescription

	 let package = Package(
	     name: "MyAwesomeSwiftProject",

	     ...

	     dependencies: [
	     
	     	// Swift 3.1.1
	         .Package(url: "https://github.com/IBM/metrics-tracker-client-swift.git", majorVersion: 5),
		 
		 // Swift 4.0
		.package(url: "https://github.com/IBM/metrics-tracker-client-swift.git", .upToNextMajor(from: "5.0.0")),
	         ...

	     ])
	```
2. Once the Package.swift file of your application has been updated accordingly, you can import the `MetricsTrackerClient` module in your code. Additionally, you will need to initialize the MetricsTrackerClient and call the `track()` method, as seen here:

	```
	import MetricsTrackerClient

	...

	MetricsTrackerClient(repository: "BluePic", organization: "IBM").track()

	```
**Note:** You must replace `BluePic` with your own Github repository name. If your repository is not in `IBM`, please also replaces `IBM` with your repository's organization.

The above code should be used within the main entry point of your Swift application, generally before you start your server.

3. Add a [repository.yaml](#example-repositoryyaml-file) file in your GitHub master's top level repository.

4. Lastly, you should add a copy of the [Privacy Notice](#privacy-notice) to the README of your project. All applications that use the deployment tracker must have a Privacy Notice.

## Example repository.yaml file

The repository.yaml need to be written in Yaml format. Also, please put all your keys in lower case.

```yaml
id: BluePic
runtimes: 
  - Cloud Foundry
services: 
  - Discovery
event_id: web
event_organizer: dev-journeys
language: swift
```

Required field:

1. id: Put your journey name/Github URL of your journey/pattern.
	- Note: Please put down the Github URL if your journey/pattern is not from IBM organization.
2. runtimes: Put down all your platform runtime environments in a list.
3. services: Put down all the bluemix services that are used in your journey in a list.
4. event_id: Put down where you will distribute your journey. Default is web.
5. event_organizer: Put down your event organizer if you have one.
6. language: If your journey is not in **swift**, please put down the journey's main language in lower case.

## Example App
To see how to include this package into your app, please visit [Kitura-Starter](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter). View the [Package.swift](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter/blob/master/Package.swift#L29) and [main.swift](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/Kitura-Starter/blob/master/Sources/Kitura-Starter/main.swift#L30) as a reference.

## Privacy Notice
```
## Privacy Notice
This Swift application includes code to track deployments to [IBM Bluemix](https://www.bluemix.net/) and other Cloud Foundry platforms. The following information is sent to a [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/cf-deployment-tracker-service) service on each deployment:

* Swift project code version (if provided)
* Swift project repository URL
* Application Name (`application_name`)
* Space ID (`space_id`)
* Application Version (`application_version`)
* Application URIs (`application_uris`)
* Labels and names of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service and associated plan information
* Metadata in the repository.yaml file

This data is collected from the parameters of the `MetricsTrackerClient`, the `VCAP_APPLICATION` and `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variables in IBM Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Bluemix to measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking
Please see the README for the sample application that includes this package for instructions on disabling deployment tracking, as the instructions may vary based on the sample application in which this package is included.
```

## License
This Swift package is licensed under Apache 2.0. Full license text is available in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

[platform-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-OS%20X%20--%20Linux-lightgray.svg
[platform-url]: https://swift.org
